# Heap Integration

The $EC API includes an integration with Heap analytics. These functions ensure consistent, secure, and PII-free User IDs are generated. 

As of May 19, 2023 these functions should only be used in only when a solution organization uses Marketo and we have non-Marketo forms generating leads (i.e. product sign-up forms).

## Heap Identify

```typescript
$EC.heap.identify(email: string);
```

This function is only to be used in conjunction with Heap Analytics tracking. This specifically uses the `heap.identify()` API. When called and provided an email address as the first parameter a UUID is generated via the private `$EC.generateUUID()` function and returned back.

Without the Heap API loaded on the page the function will still return the UUID, but it will not identify the user with Heap.

**Notes**
- This function to be used sparingly. It is important the Heap ID value is stored in both Heap and our MAP and always uses the value generated by providing `$EC.generateUUID()` with the user's email address.
- Heap Identification is automatically handled for all Marketo Forms so long as the tracking script is loaded.
- If the user is already identified with Heap, it will return the value of `heap.identity`.

```javascript
$EC.heap.identify("webmaster@evercommerce.com");

// Runs heap.identify() with the UUID value of eef5425b-13cf-4d55-a763-27a34c4defd1bf2f704daa8a92772159e97ea8f01f3d
```

## Heap Autofill

```typescript
$EC.heap.autofill(emailFieldSelector: string, heapIdFieldSelector: string)
```

This is available for use with non-Marketo forms. This runs `$EC.heap.identify()` and auto-populates the Heap ID hidden field with the generated UUID. See the example below, or check out the working [demo](/demo/heap-autofill.html).


```javascript
$EC.heap.autofill("input[name=email]", "input[name=ec_heap_id__c]");

// Runs heap.identify() and returns value of eef5425b-13cf-4d55-a763-27a34c4defd1bf2f704daa8a92772159e97ea8f01f3d
```

## Heap Track

Marketo and HubSpot form events are sent to Heap Analytics via the `heap.track()` API. The following events & properties are tracked:

**Marketo Tracked Form Events**
- `form.onSubmit`: Called when the form is submitted. Fired when the submission begins, before the success/failure of the request is known.
- `form.onValidate`: Called any time that validation occurs.
- `form.onSuccess`: Called when the form has been successfully submitted but before the lead is forwarded to the follow up page

**HubSpot Tracked Form Events**
- `onFormSubmitted`: Called after the form has been submitted and the submission has been persisted.